---
title: "Accident"
date: 2023-12-08
---

At around 2:05PM on Monday, November 20, 2023, I was in a car accident.

My best friend, Alex, was coming to visit for Thanksgiving.
He's 75% blind (a story for another post), so usually takes 
the train from St. Louis where he lives (and where we met in 2008) to Kansas City (where I've resided since January 
2016).
I picked him up at 1:59PM
(I remember the time specifically because I called and hung up when I saw him walking towards my car)
from Union Station and headed south on Broadway towards the Plaza.
Alex had placed an item on reserve and wanted to pick it up.
We chatted about Christmas decorations already being up (it's not even Thanksgiving yet!),
the train being on time (for once),
and how I was trying to cram in seven more books before the end of the year (I'd only read 9 at that point).

At this point we were coming up to the intersection of Broadway and 31st.
Midtown.
The day was gray and damp—just enough to force flicking your wipers every minute or so.
We proceeded through the light towards Linwood Blvd.
I can't remember if we stopped at a red light or were greeted with a green light, but after we drove through the 
intersection, right after we passed the dedicated left turn lane for north bound traffic at the intersection, I saw an 
orange (red?) sports car in the center turn lane flying by traffic heading north.
Alex and I were in the left most south bound lane (it's a four-lane road).
I pointed it out to him, and we watched as it sped by us on our left.

I don't know how much time had passed, but when I turned my eyes back to the front, I heard a crunch followed by the 
sight of a northbound SUV losing control, veering across the center turn lane and into our lane.
Alex says I said "shit."
If I did, that's about the largest syllable word I would have gotten out before we hit head on.

I saw us hit, but didn't feel it.
Didn't hear it either.
I blinked, and the next thing I saw was dust.
A shattered windshield.
Alex's face with fear and confusion in his eyes.
He started to talk.
I don't really remember what he said.
He started to freak out.
I told him we'd be okay.
To stay in the car.
I didn't know if another car would hit us.
I didn't even know what direction we were facing.
As I gathered my bearings and looked myself over, a woman tapped on my window with a phone up to her ear.
"I've called 911! Are you okay?!"
I don't remember how I answered, but I know I looked at my door and saw it was unlocked.
I asked her to open it, and she did without a problem.
I now realize the dust is from the airbag.
It stinks and it's hard to breathe.
I look at Alex as the woman opens his door.
His right hand has started to bleed.
I'm able to unbuckle his seatbelt and my own.
I feel a weird pain in my left forearm.
I'm scared to look at it.
I try to move it.
It hurts.

Alex is still talking.
I'm trying to relax.
To think.
What do I do now?
A paramedic comes to our car and checks on us. 
How long has it been?
It feels they teleported there.
He asks if we were shot.

"Shot?" I reply.

"Yeah. There are three bullet holes in one of these cars."

If we were shot, I wouldn't know.
The paramedic asks who's more hurt.
I tell him Alex.
I honestly have no idea, but he's freaking out more than me.
Alex somehow gets his phone out of his pocket and calls his mom.
He says exactly what you'd think, "don't freak out."
Even in this situation, I can't help but smile.

The paramedics put neck braces on us and get Alex out.
Another paramedic comes to my side.
He finds my phone at my feet.
No physical damage without a case.
Amazing.
My rearview mirror on the other hand...
I don't even know where it is.
There's a small pile of black plastic squished between the windshield and the center of the dash—that might be it.
There's also a black Chiefs ball cap in the left corner of the dash behind the steering wheel.
Pretty sure Alex was wearing that.

"I'm putting your phone in your coat pocket."
I whisper "okay."

The paramedic asks me some questions.
"Were you wearing a seatbelt?"

"Yes."

"What hurts?"

"My left arm. And my left chest. It's hard to breathe."
My voice is soft.
It feels better not to talk.
I can barely take a full breath.
Remain calm.
Step into your mind.
Separate yourself from the pain and focus on breathing.

More medics arrive.
"Think you'll be able to walk to the gurney, or do you want us to bring it to you?"

"I can do it."
I feel cramped.
I ask a medic to hit the latch bar under my seat to give me more legroom.
He does.
I push with my legs and run right into my rear seat.
Oh yeah, I keep the rear seat folded down for more trunk space.
This is all the room I have.
Tiny car perks.
Next solution: get out of the car.
I slowly swing my left leg out, then my right, and put weight on them.
I use my right hand to grab onto the medic's and stand up.
"Whoa, hold on there."

"I need some fresh air."
I suck in.
I can't fill my lungs.
I sit back down and try to get comfortable.
These seats weren't designed to be sat in from the side.
I lean my head against the door frame of the car.

"You ready?" asks the medic.
I pull myself back up and stand.
The medics walk me around the back of my car and help me onto a gurney.
From this angle my car looks fine.
Still yellow.
Slightly dusty rear window.
Somehow, it's in the right lane facing the sidewalk.
I catch a glimpse of the SUV.
The front passenger headlight looks a little smashed in.
Maybe it's not so bad.

They put me in the ambulance and get some information. "What's your name?"

"Ian." I exhale. "Thompson."

"What hospital do you wanna go to?"

I think for a second, mapping out where I am in the city.
"KU. Do you know where my buddy went?"
I wheeze.

"We don't. There were three ambulances. We can find out once we get there."
I nod in agreement.
"Tell us what hurts."

"My left forearm. And..." I gesture to my chest with my right hand.
"This bone. The one in the center."

"Your sternum?"

"Yes."

"Good news, that bone is really hard to break. You probably have some bruising."

I try to nod in agreement, but the neck brace limits me.

"Can we take your jacket off so we can look at your arm? I know it's cold out, but if we don't, they're going to have to 
cut it off at the hospital."

I'm able to get my right arm out of the sleeve with some help and start working on the left.
My watch is in the way. 
"You need help?" asks the medic.
I try to shake my head "no," stopped again by the neck brace.
After some struggling, I unhook the buckle of my watch with my right thumb and middle finger and pull it out from the 
loop.
I let the medic do the rest, removing it from my wrist.
I lift my left arm at the shoulder and support it at the palm with my right hand,
trying to keep it in the same position as I raise it.
The medic slowly slides my left sleeve over my left hand.
Success.
My jacket is off.
I lower my left arm back into the cradle of my waist, nursing it with my right.
"I'm going to put your watch in your coat pocket."

I remember my phone. "Is my phone in there? My left coat pocket."

"Yes, I'll put it with it."

"Can you zip it closed, please?"
Sometimes things fall out of my pockets.
He zips it closed.
More questions.

"Were you wearing your seatbelt?"
The medic unbuttons the first few buttons of my shirt and looks at my left shoulder.

"Yes."

"Oh yeah, I can see the bruising."
He buttons my shirt back up.
I can't see anything on my body.
The neck brace keeps me from seeing.
Not that I want to see anyway.
I'm scared to even look at my left arm.
I'll take his word that I'm bruised.

Some more questions and a short, slightly bumpy ride later, and we're at the University of Kansas Hospital's Emergency 
Department (ED).
They roll me out of the ambulance and into the building.

I worked for the health system from June 2019 to April 2022 and never set foot in the ED.
Most of that time I was remote due to COVID.
But somehow it felt familiar.

As we rolled down the halls I kind of hoped to run into an old colleague.
I imagined raising my right hand for a fist bump.
For an instant I thought I saw one -- her gait is unique to her.
I wanted to call out, but either my lack of oxygen or shy nature and fear of misidentifying someone stopped me.
Maybe all the above.

The medics converse with hospital staff.
I can't really tell if they're nurses or doctors.
"Which room?" says the medic.
"15," someone replies.

We make a few turns.
I'm lost.
At some point, we have to turn around due to a wrong turn.
Eventually we make it to 15.

"Should we go in backwards or?" says a female medic.
"Backwards," a new staff member says.
They pass up the room; my head is to the right of the entry and my feet down the hall.
They reverse to the left.
My eyes adjust to the darkness as my head enters.
We pull up to another bed on my right.
"We need to move you to this other bed. Do you need us to help lift you?"

"No, I got it."

They lower the gurney to the height of the bed.
I support my weight with my right arm and shift my legs to the bed.
I slowly inch the rest of my buddy over until I'm off the gurney.
I lay down and begin to relax.

Several women are in the room.
One inserts an IV into my right arm.
Another takes my vitals.
A wristband is put on my right wrist.
"Have you been here before?" a woman asks?
"No," I responded, "not as a patient. I used to work here."
Several people are talking, I can't tell if they're talking to me or each other.
"Hello?" I hear a woman's voice from the hallway.

"Yes?" I say slightly annoyed.

"What's your name?"

"Ian, I-A-N, Thompson, T-H-O-M-P-S-O-N." I hear the nurses chattering.
"My ID is in my wallet," I say as I manage to squeeze it out of my right front pocket.

"Do you still live on Benton Boulevard?"

"No."
I give my new address, where I've lived since the beginning of June.

A minute or so go by and a man walks in.
He introduces himself as a resident.
I can't remember his name.
He looks at my arm.
"Can you wiggle your fingers for me?"
I wiggle my fingers.
"Good. Give me a thumbs up?"
He gives me a thumbs up and I respond with the same.
"Okay sign?"
We both make the okay sign.
"Cross your fingers?"
This is slightly challenging, but I manage to get my middle finger over my index finger.
"Good."
He says some words about my left arm that sound medical.
I can't remember what they are, but I'm pretty they mean that it's broken.

He puts his stethoscope on and says, "I'm gonna take a listen to your chest. Breathe in for me."
He places the chest piece on the right side of my chest.
Then the left.
His expression changes to that of someone focusing.
He moves the chest piece to my right again, back to the left, and then to the left side of my chest.
He says some more words that I don't understand.
I hear him talk to a woman in the room who I think is a nurse.
"Trauma," is all I can make out.
The nurse responds with "I thought so, but wasn't sure."
He leaves the room.
The nurse comes to me and says they are going to move me to their trauma unit.
My left lung has collapsed and needs to be reinflated.
Once they do that, it will be easier to breathe.
"Okay," I whispered.
I'm at their mercy.

The resident reenters the room with another person, and they begin to get my bed ready to move.
We roll out of the room through more hallways.
I'm fairly relaxed at this point, having managed to separate myself from the physical pain.
Just before we enter a room, the resident says there are going to be lots of people in there and that it may be
overwhelming.

We enter.
I see maybe five people.
They move my bed next to a table and have me slide off.
I'm getting pretty good at this.
A woman approaches me on my left.
"I like your shirt," she says.
"Unfortunately, I have to cut it off."
I nod.
She begins cutting.

As she cuts, another person begins to remove my shoes.
As my shoes are untied, I realize my right toe doesn't feel too hot.
"Careful of my right big toe," I say as I point to it with my hand.
In high school, my anatomy teacher broke her right foot when she hit the brakes trying to avoid hitting a car that had 
pulled out in front of her on a state highway.
The combined impact from her hitting the brake pedal and hitting the car sent the force through her foot, braking the 
bones.
I could still wiggle my toe, so I didn't think it was broken.
Which made me think that I didn't even hit the brake.
Perhaps my toe was hovering over the brake when we hit.
The person carefully removes my right shoe and sock, then my left shoe and sock.
I can't remember if I undid my belt or someone else did, but my pants came off next.
Skinny jeans weren't the best choice today.
They spread a gown over me and then cut away my briefs.
I wish they had slid those off too; I really liked those.

The resident has been standing to my left during this and tells me that they need to insert a chest tube.
To do that, I need to get my right arm out of the way, so they can make an incision.
I try to move it, but the pain is too much without the support of my right hand.
The resident helps me by holding my left elbow with his right hand and my left palm with his left hand.
I put the weight of my arm in his control and rotate my shoulder so my arm is away from my side.
"50 micrograms of fentanyl," says the resident.