---
title: "Accident"
date: 2023-12-06
---

At around 2:05PM on Monday, November 20, 2023, I was in a car accident.

My best friend, Alex, was coming to visit for Thanksgiving.
He's 75% blind (a story for another post), so usually takes 
the train from St. Louis where he lives (and where we met in 2008) to Kansas City (where I've resided since January 
2016).
I picked him up at 1:59PM from Union Station and headed south on Broadway towards the Plaza.
Alex had placed an item on 
reserve and wanted to pick it up.
We chatted about Christmas decorations already being up (it's not even Thanksgiving 
yet!), the train being on time (for once), and how I was trying to cram in seven more books before the end of the year 
(I'd only read 9 at that point).

At this point we were coming up to the intersection of Broadway and 31st.
Midtown.
The day was gray and damp—just enough to force you to flick your wipers every minute or so.
We proceeded through the light towards Linwood Blvd.
I can't remember if we stopped at a red light or were greeted with a green light, but after we drove through the 
intersection, right after we passed the dedicated left turn lane for north bound traffic at the intersection, I saw an 
orange (red?) sports car in the center turn lane flying by traffic heading north.
Alex and I were in the left most south bound lane (it's a four-lane road).
I pointed it out to him, and we watched as it sped by us on our left.

I don't know how much time had passed, but when I turned my eyes back to the front, I heard a crunch followed by the 
sight of a northbound SUV losing control, veering across the center turn lane and into our lane.
Alex says I said "shit."
If I did, that's about the largest syllable word I would have gotten out before we hit head on.

I saw us hit, but didn't feel it.
I blinked, and the next thing I saw was dust.
A shattered windshield.
And Alex's face looking at me with fear and confusion in his eyes.
He started to talk.
I don't really remember what he said.
He started to freak out.
I told him we'd be okay.
To stay in the car.
I didn't know if another car would hit us.
I didn't even know what direction we were facing.
As I gathered my bearings and looked myself over, a woman tapped on my window with a phone up to her ear.
"I've called 911! Are you okay?!"
I don't remember how I answered, but I know I looked at my door and saw it was unlocked.
I asked her to open it, and she did without a problem.
I now realize the dust is from the airbag.
It stinks and it's hard to breathe.
I look at Alex as the woman opens his door.
His right hand has started to bleed.
I'm able to unbuckle his seatbelt and my own.
I feel a weird pain in my left forearm.
I'm scared to look at it.
I try to move it.
It hurts.

Alex is still talking.
I'm trying to relax.
To think.
What do I do now?
A paramedic comes to our car and checks on us. 
How long has it been?
It feels they teleported there.
He asks if we were shot.
"Shot?" I reply.
"Yeah. There are three bullet holes in one of these cars." If we were shot, I wouldn't know.
The paramedic asks who's more hurt.
I tell them Alex.
I honestly have no idea, but he's freaking out more than me.
Alex somehow gets his phone out of his pocket and calls his mom.
He says exactly what you'd think, "don't freak out."
Even in this situation, I can't help but smile.

The paramedics put neck braces on us and get Alex out.
Another paramedic comes to my side.
He finds my phone at my feet.
No physical damage without a case.
Amazing.
My rearview mirror on the other hand...
I don't even know where it is. 
The paramedic asks me some questions.
"Were you wearing a seatbelt?"

"Yes."

"What hurts?"

"My left arm. And my left chest. It's hard to breathe."
My voice is soft.
It feels better not to talk.
I can barely take a full breath.
Remain calm.
Step into your mind. 
Separate yourself from the pain and focus on breathing.

More medics arrive.
"Think you'll be able to walk to the gurney, or do you want us to bring it to you?"

"I can do it."
I feel cramped.
I ask a medic to hit the latch bar under my seat so I can get more legroom.
He does.
I push with my legs and run right into my rear seat.
Oh yeah, I keep the rear seat folded down for more trunk space.
This is all the room I have.
Tiny car perks.
Next solution: get out of the car.
I move my legs out and put weight on them.
I use my right hand to grab onto the medic's and stand up.
"Whoa, hold on there."

"I need some fresh air."
I suck in.
I can't fill my lungs.

The medics walk me around the back of my car and help me onto a gurney.
From this angle my car looks fine.
Still yellow.
Slightly dusty rear window.
I catch a glimpse of the SUV.
The front passenger corner looks a little smashed in.
Maybe it's not so bad.

They put me in the ambulance and get some information. "What's your name?"

"Ian." I exhale. "Thompson."

"What hospital do you wanna go to?"

I think for a second, mapping out where I am in the city.
"KU. Do you know where my buddy went?"
I wheeze.

"We don't. There were three ambulances. We can find out once we get there."
I nod in agreement.
"Tell us what hurts."

"My left forearm. And..." I gesture to my chest with my right hand.
"This bone. The one in the center."

"Your sternum?"

"Yes."

"Good news, that bone is really hard to break. You probably have some bruising."

I try to nod in agreement, but the neck brace limits me.

"Can we take your jacket off so we can look at your arm? I know it's cold out, but if we don't, they're going to have to 
cut it off at the hospital."

I'm able to get my right arm out of the sleeve with some help and start working on the left.
My watch is in the way. 
"You need help?" asks the medic.
I try to shake my head "no," stopped again by the neck brace.
After some struggling, I unhook the buckle of my watch with my right thumb and middle finger and pull it out from the 
loop.
I let the medic do the rest, removing it from my wrist.
I lift my left arm at the shoulder and support it at my palm with my right hand, trying to keep it in the same position 
as I raise it.
The medic slowly slides my left sleeve over my left hand.
Success.
My jacket is off.
I lower my left arm back into the cradle of my waist, nursing it with my right.
More questions.

"Were you wearing your seatbelt?" asks the medic as he unbuttons the first few buttons of my shirt and looks at my left 
shoulder.

"Yes."

"Oh yeah, I can see the bruising."
He buttons my shirt back up.
I can't see anything on my body.
The neck brace keeps me from seeing.
Not that I want to see anyway.
I'm scared to even look at my left arm.
I'll take his word that I'm bruised.

Some more questions and a short, slightly bumpy ride later, and we're at the University of Kansas Hospital Emergency 
Department (ED).
They roll me out of the ambulance and into the building.

I worked for the health system from 2019 to 2022 and never set foot in the ED.
But somehow it felt familiar.
As we rolled down the halls I kind of hoped to run into an old colleague.
I imagined raising my right hand for a fist bump.
For an instant I thought I saw one -- her gait is unique to her.
I wanted to call out, but either my lack of oxygen or shy nature and fear of misidentifying someone stopped me.
Maybe all the above.