---
layout: "post"
title: "isort + git: Cleaner Import Statements without the Hook"
date: 2024-12-12
---

While reviewing pull requests (PRs) at work, I sometimes notice that the imports are kind of... disorganized.
```python
# A made-up example.

from itertools import chain
from . import local_module
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
from typing import Generator

...

```
I can't fault any single author for this, it just happens over time.
To help myself and future authors of the codebase,
I try to make suggestions that make it easier to read or add a bit more structure.

On a recent PR I made the suggestion to use [`isort`](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/) on all the modified files.
Then it occurred to me that if there were more than a few modified files, this could be quite tedious!
To do this more lazily—er,
I mean _efficiently_!—I could take advantage of [`git`](https://git-scm.com/) to get a list of modified files
and feed them to `isort` as arguments.

# `git` the modified files
> [!NOTE]
> 
> If you don't already use `git` to track your files, I highly recommend starting.
> It's helped me in more ways that I can mention, and I find myself learning something new more often than not.

`git` tracks changes to files and writes those as [`commit`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit)s to a [`log`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log).
Normally it's a best practice to make changes to a branch different from your primary branch
(i.e. "main", "master", etc.),
then open a pull request to merge those changes into the primary branch.
This keeps code from being pushed to users without being reviewed or passing tests, among other things.

Another benefit of tracking work on a separate branch is
you can see which files have been added or modified when compared with the primary branch with [`git diff`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-diff).

Assuming we're on our feature branch and synced with the main branch, we can get the list of files like so:
```shell
$ git diff main --name-only
_posts/2024-12-12-isort.md
```
Here we can see that the only file different from my main branch is "_posts/2024-12-12-isort.md",
the blog post I'm currently writing.

>[!NOTE]
> 
> We can go a bit further by limiting the file types like so:
> ```shell
> $ git diff main --name-only -- *.py
> ```
> 
> This returns nothing on my machine because I haven't added/modified any git-tracked *.py files on this branch.

# `isort` the modified files
Now that we have a convenient way to identify our modified files, let's `isort` them.
